TENSHILLINGS WIDGET

An example of a moveable/resizable single-image, VB6 / TwinBasic program using the RC6 widget framework, complete with right click menu, help, about and licence forms and help CHM.

The program does very little but place some eye-candy on the desktop in the manner of the old Yahoo Widget/Konfabulator engine.
You can add more logic as you require or replace the main image with your own.

This VB6 version of the TenShillings widget replaces the Yahoo widget version that is now obsolete.

This widget's UI functionality is 'simple' as it is merely a template for other single-image VB6 / TwinBasic RC6 programs, a template that I knocked up late at night whilst drinking gin and tonic.

You can change a variety of characteristics with the preferences. It can be increased in size, opacity/transparency may be set as to the users discretion. The widget can also be made to hide for a pre-determined period.

Right-click on the widget to display the function menu, mouse hover over the widget and press CTRL+mousewheel up/down to resize. It works well on Windows Vista+ to Windows 11 as well as Linux and Mac os x with Wine.

This version was initially developed on Windows 7/10 using 32 bit VisualBasic 6 as a FOSS project creating a WoW64 widget for the desktop.

It is open source to allow easy configuration, bug-fixing, enhancement and community contribution towards free-and-useful VB6 utilities that can be created by anyone. The first step was the creation of a template program to form the basis for the conversion of several desktop utilities or 'widgets'. This program is one of them. A future step is new VB6 widgets with more functionality and then hopefully, conversion of each to RADBasic/TwinBasic for future-proofing and 64bit-ness.

This utility is one of a set of steampunk and dieselpunk widgets that you can find here on Deviantart: https://www.deviantart.com/yereverluvinuncleber/gallery

I do hope you enjoy using this utility and others. Your own software enhancements and contributions will be gratefully received if you choose to contribute.

Built using: VB6, MZ-TOOLS 3.0, VBAdvance, CodeHelp Core IDE Extender Framework 2.2 & Rubberduck 2.4.1, RichClient 6

CREDITS:

I have really tried to maintain the credits as the project has progressed. If I have made a mistake and left someone out then do forgive me. I will make amends if anyone points out my mistake in leaving someone out.

MicroSoft in the 90s - MS built good, lean and useful tools in the late 90s/early 2000s. Thanks for VB6.

Olaf Schmidt    - This tool was built using the RichClient RC6 Cairo wrapper for VB6. Specifically the components using transparency. Thanks for the massive effort Olaf in creating Cairo counterparts for all VB6 native controls and giving us access to advanced features on controls such as transparency.

Shuja Ali @ codeguru for his settings.ini code.

ALLAPI.COM        For the registry reading code.

Rxbagain on codeguru for his Open File common dialog code without a dependent OCX http://forums.codeguru.com/member.php?92278-rxbagain

si_the_geek       for his special folder code

Elroy on VB forums for the balloon tooltips

Randy Birch for his timezone code - http://vbnet.mvps.org/index.html?code/locale/timezonebiaslookup.htm

-oOo-

Harry Whitfield for his quality testing, brain stimulation and being an unwitting source of inspiration.


LICENCE AGREEMENTS:

Copyright © 2023 Dean Beedell

Using this program implies you have accepted the licence. The GPL licence applies to the code this software Is provided as-is, without any express or implied warranty. In no event will the
author be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software. Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation is required.
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public Licence as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the Licence, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public Licence for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public Licence along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301
USA

If you use this software in any way whatsoever then that implies acceptance of the licence. If you do not wish to comply with the licence terms then please remove the download, binary and source code from your systems immediately. 

You may use any of my own imagery in your own creations but commercially only with my permission. In all other non-commercial cases I require a credit to the original artist using my name or one of my pseudonyms and a link to my site. With regard to the commercial use of incorporated images, permission and a licence would need to be obtained from the original owner and creator, ie. me.